let's take it one step farther and go to
our Pesci owes our Pesci owes our where
instead of playing a block or and
meaning us and group of notes all at
once you play the notes one at a time as
opposed to lock course where you're
playing them in the same time so with
our Peggy owes the idea that you're
going to sink in your left hands and
notes of this D chord and also in your
right hand stick three note to the state
court and you're going to just moot roll
up from the bottom base note up to the
top and back down as far as you can go
in four beats so if your pattern is one
and once you played a bass note on beat
one which is essential anything else you
play is going to be fine as long as it's
a note of the C chord so I could start
in that bass note because the notes
Allah
doesn't really matter because they're
all votes of the C court so they're
going to sound great
whether you do them all in a row or
mixed up
depends on what kind of feel you want so
that's something you can start
experimenting with if you play all three
notes together one three five in the
base hand it sounds really kind of heavy
and close together so often in the
baseline what you see in arpeggios is
they take away the three of the chord
and in the left hand only will play the
one in the five of the chord and then
eight or you could call it a one on the
octave above so that's a really good
habit to start playing with if you're
going to do our pezzi o's is to always
use one five eight as your basic left
hand part whether or not your left hand
plays the eighth or whether you're
right-handed
a much more open and sound as opposed to
versus the more open sound so once you
get that openness in a left hand
really from there on out what you're
doing is you're thinking specifically I
need to hit the sea bass note on beat
one and after that anything you do is
more general you just need to play notes
to fill the beats and as long as there
any of the notes of the C chord it's
going to sound fine it's not any
specific order you have to do so when
three and four and so you can go in a
downward direction or an upward
direction that's something you can begin
to practice is to play the 1 3 5 just
moving up on any chord you're playing
and then practice alternating those
give a little bit of rhythmic variation
then you can practice playing them
together
you can practice playing them in
parallel motion where they're going in
the same direction or you can practice
mirror motion where they're going in the
opposite direction to each other
so the trick is to know that regardless
of what direction you're going or how
much you fill the beats you're really
just using the same three notes in both
hands so before I go I want to show you
one other quick thing and that's how to
apply this information if you're in a
song it has pulses of three instead of
pulses of four so if you're doing
arpeggios in a song that has counts of
three instead of counts of four you'll
want to just adapt it so that you're
filling three beats worth of notes so
for example one and two and three and
then you're done with the pattern and
you start again one and two and three
and one and two and three and you could
play right hand arpeggios while you're
playing left hand arpeggios one and just
remember to spread on that left
so one last thing before I go and that's
to talk about how to make our Pesci O
sound even softer and the way to do that
is to use a neighborhood note so if the
court is man and one three five you can
use a neighborhood note too to make it
sound softer so leadless here in
arpeggio where we're going to use the
one three five and the neighborhood note
of two
see much softer sense one five one three
I'll show you one example of this
watermark by Enya uses the base notes
one five nine three nine five
so if we took that back to the key of C
that we're working on one
I'm very pretty sound so as he practice
arpeggio when you had that neighborhood
note or not
you'll find that if you start thinking
about what the left hand has in common
with the right hand when most of the
time it's using notes of the chord or
note to the chord plus a neighborhood
note then you're going to find it starts
to get a lot easier to stylize a song
you think some of these ideas
so good luck partner and remember it's
all about having fun
I'm Susanna Doyle thanks for joining me
and have fun stylizing your song